---
title: Delivery
type: docs
weight: 20
bookToC: true
---

## Overview

In Nervatura the warehouse stock moves for the ORDER, WORKSHEET and RENTAL transaction types are handled by DELIVERY. Based on the direction this can have three types: SHIPPING IN, SHIPPING OUT and TRANSFER.

## Input fields

### Document No.
Unique ID, generated at the first data save. The format and value of the next data in row is taken from the [**DOCUMENT NUMBERING**](/docs/client/settings/numberdef) (code = delivery_in or delivery_out or delivery_transfer) data series.

### Delivery Type
The type of warehouse movement
- SHIPPING IN: receipt
- SHIPPING OUT: stock release
- TRANSFER: move between two warehouses

### Reference No.
In case of SHIPPING IN/OUT types the number of the related document, cannot be modified. In case of TRANSFER type the value is optional, can be defined freely.

### State
Its value and editing possibility is linked to [**ACCESS RIGHTS**](/docs/client/settings/usergroup#supervisor) setting. Not used in current version.

### Creation
Date of creation. Automatic value, cannot be changed.

### Shipping
Date of warehouse movement. For SHIPPING IN/OUT types it is generated by [**SHIPPING**](/docs/client/stock/shipping) form, cannot be changed. For TRANSFER type its value is free to be defined, but mandatory.

### Closed
*Technical* closing of the document.

{{< hint danger >}}

If set, document data become read only. **Marking is not revocable on the user interface!**

{{< /hint >}}

### Warehouse
For SHIPPING IN/OUT types it is generated by {goPage("shipping","SHIPPING")} form, cannot be changed. For TRANSFER type its value is free to be defined, but mandatory.A warehouse can be chosen from the search field from *warehouse* type items of [**PLACE**](/docs/client/settings/place#type).

### Target warehouse
Only for TRANSFER type. Mandatory value. A warehouse can be chosen from the search field from *warehouse* type items of [**PLACE**](/docs/client/settings/place#type).

### Comment
Remarks field.

### Internal notes
Internal comments. Text defined in this field will not appear on the document.

## Related data

### [**METADATA**](/docs/client/settings/metadata)
Unlimited number of supplementary data can be added.

### [**REPORT NOTES**](/docs/client/program/notes)
Editable remarks, data for reports.

### DOCUMENT ITEM
For SHIPPING IN/OUT types generated by [**SHIPPING**](/docs/client/stock/shipping) form, cannot be changed.

In case of TRANSFER type:
- **Shipping Date**: Stock movements (stock release or receipt) date. The value can not be modified at line item level.
- **Target warehouse**: A warehouse can be chosen from the search field from *warehouse* type items of [**PLACE**](/docs/client/settings/place#type). Value change will concern all line items!
- **Product No.**: One of the *items* of [**PRODUCT**](/docs/client/resources/product#product-type). Mandatory. Value can be defined with a search field or with the barcode of the product.
- **Batch No.**: The quantity is put into this group, or taken off from here. Usage is optional.
- **Quantity**: The given quantity is added to the two warehoses with positive or negative directional signs.

## Operations

### COPY FROM
Create a new, *same transaction type* document on the basis of current document's data. 

The dates and information related to creation gets updated and the references from the original document will not be transferred either.

### REPORT
[**DATA EXPORT**](/docs/client/program/export)

### BOOKMARK
Set a bookmark for the record. Later can be loaded from bookmarks at any time.
